apparent to the former student's board that we
just had to raise some money. We were not, we didn't
have much of a staff, so we just had Lonnie Locke and
the secretary were keeping all the books, and he
was doing the student loans, see? And the
scholarship work was being done over at the, well
it didn't have a student aid office, heck, it was
being done up in the No, I guess we were doing
everything there in former students. And then
when we got a development, when McQuillan moved,
then he took the Opportunity Award scholarships
with him to the development office. I think there
was a guy named Morgan. I'm a little bit hazy right
in here as to when McQuillan went.
47. Oh, that's it. In 47, McQuillan, when Dick
Hervey came, he took the Opportunity Award
Scholarship program and all. He did not take
student loans. Anyway, there was Dick Hervey in
the secretary. There was a records lady and an
assistant. And there was Mrs. Shepherd by
herself. And then there was a part-time English
prof, Elmquist. Aggie was a tabloid printed by the
press, and it was late all the time of the month. And
then we had three people in the mailroom. And one
was an Aggie wife, and the other two were students.
And Pinky Downs' desk. Old Pinky. You remember
him? Yeah. Anyway, so. And where was all this
housed? It was housed in the west end, on the first
floor west end of the MSC. When we remodeled it, and
we used the back entrance and the mailroom
entrance, was the fire escape and when we had to be
careful to not clog up that fire escape hall fire
chief and just eat our ass out and say well don't you
said people couldn't get out of this place you got
to keep that empty don't you can use it yeah right
but we had we had a crash door thing on it from the
inside and so we can put a glass door on it so you can
anyway But it became apparent. So they said, what
we need to do is one A&M man ask another one to give.
We need to have personal solicitation. Well, they
didn't quite know how to get it kicked off. So Dick
called me and he said, I remember you telling me
that you did United Fund. I said, that's right. I
was downtown chairman. I was building chairman,
the various chairman of these districts for the
United Fund. And I had my own company, which was
City Public Service. And we had a lot of employees.
So I got someone at each power plant and electric
distribution to take cards. And it was pretty easy
to do. The boss of the company said, I give so much,
I'll expect all employees to give something.
Ideally, you'd give a certain . Boy, people didn't
like that much to be told they had to give. But they
did. And so I learned at least organization. Then I
got in on the solicitation of our church. We
started a new church, Jefferson Methodist
Church. And I was involved in that. program of
capital giving as well as the annual giving for the
church budget. So being on these fundraising
committees involved, I had a sense of what I could
do. And so the only breakdown they could give me was
San Antonio, and they could give me class years,
and that's it. They could give me county. We had
these tabs. See, we had address graph plates. So we
had a tab up there for giving, a tab up there for
class year, and a tab up there for county and city.
And so we could break the cards out about like that.
Oh, yeah, major course of study. No, colleges,
College of Education, Engineering, or Liberal
Arts, and so on. We had those tabs. We had eight
tabs, I think, across the top of those
addressograph plates. And it was a pretty
primitive system up to a hair foot. Compared to
what you can do with a computer. Oh, well, anyway. I
think I've seen that old addressograph machine or
one like it around here somewhere. Yeah, it makes
me sick. So the fun of it is we knew we had to do
something about upgrading the whole thing. We
also had to upgrade programs and so on. So what they
did, they had a good long-range study. And out of
this study came, we had to do personal
solicitations. We had to. And this study was
within the former students? Within the former
students, yeah. Long range study. Yeah. Yeah.
It's still, Randy Metz still got it in file over
there. I hope he's got it Xeroxed and preserved for
prosperity. Anyway, and this, we had to have a
better publication. We had, well, all this
reflected programs, staff, personal
solicitation, and all these. This took staff.
Mm-hmm. So obviously we had to do something,
because at this time I had gone with Sharpen
Company and was traveling all the time. So I had a
little time that I could figure out this stuff. So
Dick said, why don't I do some experiments? So we
got together and designed a jacket and a little
envelope to put our workers' cards in and put a
little campaign material about why we needed the
annual fund, what the projects were, and so on, and
to give to workers. Dick went ahead and we did an
experiment in 1959. We had it all finished, and he
sent me the cards on San Antonio for the ones who'd
given and the ones that hadn't given in the last
year. And I was able to break them down by a major
course of study as far as engineering,
agriculture, liberal arts, and science, and
medicine, and so on, the various schools, you
know, that we could tab at a different level, tab in
there. So man, you're working in the San Antonio
area.
So I devised this system. I said, OK, I'll get the
lawyers. See, I knew everybody. So I get the
lawyers and the doctors, dentists, insurance
men, and then my company, Aggies with Public
Service Board, Aggies with Texaco, Shell, and so
on. Then I had the class agents. I had some class
agents there in town. And I got them. I said, now,
Henry, you're the class of 16. How about taking
your cards? Oh, you bet. And of course, our motto
then was not the amount of your gift, but you are the
important gift. See, we wanted a $10 gift. A $25
gift was cause for celebration. A $5 gift was
common, and a $10 gift was about average.
Actually, our average. gift at the end of that year
was $12.81. We were shook up and said, we can't do it
on this. What are we going to do? So I started
traveling around the country, going to these
American Alumni Council meetings and so on. Wait,
I'm getting ahead of myself. So anyway, it was
determined that I did this. Boy, listen, our
percentage of participation jumped way up. We
jumped up to almost 70%, 68% participation. in
giving, but our average gift was $10. That's what
I'm trying to say. So when we had a board meeting and
I presented what we'd done on this personal
solicitation, well, that's the way to go. We've
got to get them involved. Then after we get them
involved, then we'll talk about amount. Let's get
them giving. And after we get them giving, but then
we've got to have a good publication. We didn't
have that Texas Aggie tabloid. It was terrible.
And so what are we going to do about that? Well, it's
going to take money, because then you've got to get
a full-time editor. Carl Elkiss was teaching
regular load in English in the English
department. So what in the world were we going to
do? Well, we just had to have additional staff. So
they decided it was going to be me. I didn't know
this, but I guess it was 1960, Earl Rudder and Dick
Hervey called me up to Bandera. Past presidents
were having a meeting. And here Dick Hervey and
Earl Rudder take me back in the Purple Sage Motel.
and told me that they wanted me to move to College
Station to take over the annual giving program, be
the assistant executive director, and be in
charge of clubs and activities, club activities,
and annual giving. Prepare direct mail pieces.
which I had a pretty good perspective of because of
the advertising thing that I had. That really
helped. And I found out about Jim Earl right away
and got him to be my artist. And all he won was, well,
at the time I got him it was Century Club, so I gave
him the Century Club credit for doing my artwork.
Who was that? Jim Earl. Jim Earl, yeah. He was a
graduate student at the time. Incidentally, I'm
going to ask Jim Earl to do a plate. for this revised
book of Cadet Slouch with some kind of cover. I
thought he was wonderful, too. I hated to see him
go, you know? You don't have to go and pay any
attention to him anymore. He'd be well to death.
Oh, I liked him. In fact, you let me know what it is.
I'll take him to lunch or dinner or something and
get him to do it. No, I've already asked. He said
he'd be delighted to do it. Great. And I asked him to
kind of write me sort of an epilogue about Cadet
Slouch. Beautiful. Yeah, I think it'll be
amazing. So anyway, I told him, I said, I said, did
you check my transcript? Earl said, uh-huh. He
said, I won't check yours if you won't check mine.
Come on, we've taken the same thing
industrialized. So anyway, Earl said, he said, I
was in his division. I was in the reserve. I was the
lieutenant colonel. I was commanding a
battalion. I was commanding the armored cavalry
reconnaissance squadron in the 90th infantry
division. He said, It was a recon outfit, you know,
armored stuff. I got that from Fort Knox when I was
on the staff instructor up there for a while during
the Korea thing. That's why I didn't go overseas,
because I stayed in school all the time. I went to
the Air Ground Operations School. I forgot that
one. Went to the Engineering School. Went to
nothing but school during that time. I bet you the
Army's got a million dollars in education. I went
to Command General Staff School for a year or so.
You were a professional soldier there. That's
right, that's right. Exactly. You got it. And I had
a pretty good rank, you know. So I went home and told
my family. I said, President Rudder and Mr.
Hervey, Hervey authorized it from the board
because I had the experience. I'd done this. I had
the track record, and I wasn't even on the staff.
See, I was a volunteer. So that's what got me the job
right there. So I came back and told the kids. I
said, we're going to move to College Station. And
I'm going to move. in april next year 61 and y'all
are going to move in september we'll take this time
to sell a house take me to find a house but uh we'll
move labor day and that'll get you up there and go oh
i'm not going to leave they started crying and
you're here claire didn't want to leave her
gorgeous house and all kind of stuff and i said well
it's like moving to the church when we moved over
when my stepfather gave us this house and i gave him
my house we traded out He sold mine. He couldn't
sell. This big old house was on San Pedro, Highway
281. Anyway, I said, I'm going to move to College
Station, and I hope you all will come with me. I
said, if you don't, that's fine. I'll send you rent
money for a checkup. So during the summer, I
commuted. And I went home every Friday evening,
and I came back every Sunday evening. That was all
we did, except we did take a trip. We went to a
convention in Miami, Florida, and Claire went
with us. That's over. She met all these people. I
was going to ask you about the stress and the
strain. Well, that cost a lot. But anyway, we went
to Miami, Florida, and we had a ball. We took a trip
to Nassau afterwards and so on. McClellan, six of
us, in a 61 Oldsmobile, McClellan, Hervey's, and
Weir's in the car. The first thing People were
smoking. And I said, well, folks, we can't smoke in
this car. One person at a time that cracked the
window. We made Julia McQuillan the smoke
officer. Smoke control officer. So anyway, so by
the time the summer was over, Claire and the kids
were up. It's a good thing we did, because they're
here. They really fit in beautifully. They both
achieved a lot here. They did well. They both
graduated from college, one Texas and one North
Texas music. So it was a great thing we did. I'm glad
it worked. But imagine here, I was 40 years old
starting a whole new career. You really had a
multifaceted career. I didn't realize you'd done
all those things. Just fantastic. And so I learned
a lot. You are a full-time employee at this point of
the Former Students Association. Your check came
from the Former Students Association. I wasn't
making quite as much as I was making before, but of
course that was commissions and I I could have made
twice that much if I'd worked twice that hard when
you're a salesman. But I was really lucky. I was
lucky I had a good boss. But anyway, I came to work up
here with more money than McClellan was making. He
went over as director of development, say, in
1947, when Dick came. Anyway, at that time, we're
still making student loans and doing all this
stuff. I figured this has got to stop. We've got to
have a full-time, big student financial aid
office. Well, see, Runner was big on faculty and
scientists. He would pay, and we raised money to
supplement their salaries until they could get
enough research and whatever else money,
salaries. We got five or six people. We really,
when he got senior and buyers and all these reals,
and all those people who were National Academy
people, what do you call them, the Nobel Prize
winners. Well, they cost a lot of money. And we paid
for the moving expenses. So let's go back in. So I
came here. And the first thing I did when I got here
was change a whole direct mail appeal. And I had
some ideas from San Antonio, from advertising. I
was in the advertising club there. So I got a lot of
my friends in the advertising agency business and
artwork business to give me ideas. Plus, I looked
at annual giving appeals from other schools,
which I didn't really like because they didn't fit
Aggies. I tried to fit mine to A&M people. Who did
you look at? Who was doing good in gift raising in
those days? What universities were you going to?
You have to realize this. Most of the schools, I'd
say that 99% of all the universities in America,
alumni associations, have dues. Giving, annual
giving, is done by development. But we didn't have
any development. So we called our annual giving
the development fund of the former student
association. We had a development foundation
that Herman Heath and Doc Doherty had set up, but it
was dormant. Until Dorsey McCrory went over to
that, there wasn't even anybody looking after it,
see? We didn't have anybody moving that. We just
had an endowment sitting over there. The income
went to the discretion of the former students
board. We gave it to the university. We just gave it
to the president. It was out of our budget, but we
gave him the money. Because we had former student
trustees. We appointed the trustees, the former
students, but we still do, to the development
foundation. That's why we locked together. And
all that's out of the control of the university,
fiscal. We give them money, but they don't raise
it. We raise it and give it to them. So I had nothing
to go by on annual giving to alumni association,
except one, University of Pennsylvania. Is that
right? How did you pick up on them? Well, I'll tell
you. I went to these annual meetings, and I talked
to everybody. And we had annual giving meetings,
and we had a dog. The annual giving was always in
development. But Ohio State was pretty close.
Their alumni and development was together. Well,
their development had a century club. But that
money did not go to the alumni. Yet they were housed
in the same building. It would be like our
building, William's building, had half
development on one side and half alumni on the
other side. And so Kenyon Campbell was the guy of
development. And I can't remember the other guy's
name. He was with alumni. He was a feisty. Kept them
out of the Rose Bowl and all that kind of stuff.
Anyway, I couldn't find anybody that had, Texas
Tech and those schools had dues, and University of
Texas had dues, they had lifetime memberships and
that sort of stuff. So here we would have annual
giving, but our average gift was about the same as
dues. I knew we had to do something. So I got the idea
from Ohio State. But that was development. But
then I found, when I went to that meeting up at the
Big Ten, there was a guy from the University of
Pennsylvania there, and he had what he called the
Ben Franklin Associates. Other schools I looked
at, Oklahoma or, say, Purdue or all those others,
if they had like the John Purdue Club, that was all
for football. That was like our hanging club for 12
men and five. So the John Purdue Club was for
football. $100 a year for football. No priority
tickets and so on. So at the University of
Pennsylvania, Ben Franks Olsen was annual giving
to the alumni. Their development went for bigger
stuff than that. But they knew that if their alumni
were going to function, they had to. So I said,
that's it. So with the Century Club idea from Ohio
State and the annual giving from the University of
Pennsylvania, I found it. And I came back and I
prepared. the paper to the board. And we met down at
Tenneco, and I presented it to them. There's a
century club, $100. And then I said, we should have
other levels. But we didn't quite know what to call
those things. $250, $500, and $1,000. Well, they
said, first of all, let's go to $100 right now.
Don't worry about the higher level. They approved
it. Whenever the time comes, go ahead and prove it.
We didn't know what to call it. I couldn't think of
the names of things like that. I didn't come up with
the 12th Man Foundation, see. I knew that was a bad
name. I mean the Aggie Club was a bad name. So we came
up and I presented Century Club certificates. Big
mailing went out to all the people who had given to
the Anybody who gave to the stadium expansion, we
gave them Century Club credit, see? I said, Royce,
that's restricted giving. He said, that's right,
but next year, we'll send a little tab along to hang
on the bottom. Next year, it won't be restricted,
see? And it worked. Over half of them kept giving
$100, see? So we started out with probably 2,000
people giving $100 a year, just like that. Just
like that. That's an incredible success. So I was
in power one day. And it tied into the stadium
expansion. Yeah. In what year? 1955? No, well, it
was when, see, these people bought options in the
old press box expansion that Bowles Urban did.
Yeah, yeah. And then when we built the deck on it in
66, 65? Must have been, I bet, 65. Okay, I was trying
to think. Because my plaque says 68, and that's
when we finished it. I got a plaque in there on my
stadium. We had to do that, too. We didn't have a
12-month Aggie club or anybody with us to do that.
So here the former students are doing all these
other damn things. But Weisenbaker said, I'll
tell you about Weisenbaker here in a minute.
because he's tied into a lot of this stuff, like the
President Scholars and so on. Anyway, so,
I'm sitting in Weisenbaker's office, and we're
gloating over the success of the Central Club, and
I said, look, what we're doing here is kind of a
Mickey Mouse printed certificate we're sending
people. And I said, it's not, it doesn't have any
oomph to it. It doesn't have pizzazz. And I said,
you know, I still had that advertising stuff in me.
My whole background really fitted me for this job.
It was quite unusual that I learned the United
Front thing and church thing and advertising. So
anyway, I'm sitting and looking up at the wall, and
there it was. The YMCA Century Club with a gorgeous
casting
of a boy's head. And when I looked at that, I saw the
University seal instead of the boy's head. I saw
Century Club written below it. I got one on the wall
right there, one of the first ones. And so that was
the logo and the billboard there. And I said,
Royce, can we call that YMCA man here? He said, hey,
sir, call old so-and-so at the YMCA and have him. We
want to talk to him. So I got him on the phone. I
talked to him. I said, I'm in Mr. Weisenbaker's
office, and I'm looking at your plaque. And I
noticed on the back of it, it said the Sports Award
Company of Chicago. Are you still doing business
with them? He said, yeah. How much do these cost? He
said, $10. I said, OK. $10 a piece? And so I said, oh,
man. And so I said, well, that's fine. Thank you
very much. I took their address down and
everything else. And phone number. He had the
phone number, too. I plan to use a similar award, if
I can raise the money, to buy these plaques.
Because they'll really go over big, I think. And I
said, you don't mind if I? Oh, no. He said, that's
fine. It's public information. He said, I hope
you're successful. Because I said, he says, they
won't always say YMCA. So
to see how it'd go, I figured, why don't we buy 1,000
to start with? And so I said, what in the world are we
going to do? for money, and I said, well, I think
I'll call executive committee meeting, and then
if I need a board meeting, we'd just have to
appropriate some money. We're going to have to
find $10,000 somewhere. I think it was $7,500 plus
the postage, plus the cost of the casting, plus the
artwork and that sort of thing. But you have to make
ready to produce these plaques. I think we needed
about $10,000 all together. I think the plaques
really were $750 apiece. That was about right. It
turned out about $10 round figures. Packaging and
mailing and all that
stuff. issue right old buck a $10,000 check to the
former students association he said I'm sitting
there and I want to jump across the desk and kiss it I
want to say I love you you're the greatest man in the
world so see that old fundraisers when something
like that happens we go all to pieces we want to
shout to the skies and hit the ceiling so she came in
with a $10,000 check made out to the former
students and I raced back to down here, and we got
Tom around to do the artwork. He was at the press
then. We didn't get Tom for quite a while. And we did
the details of what we wanted the plaque to say, the
little plate that's on it, and then the other, the
year tabs below it. I go ahead, Dave says, I got that
plaque, and I thought to myself, the minute I saw
those little hooks on the bottom, I said, uh-oh.
Oh, shit. He said, the goddamn virus has got me
again. That's good. So that's a good story. That
started that, and we nailed those plaques out to
the... And they first went out wind, you know?
Roughly. 66? 66, yeah. Because we gave anybody
credit for being a founding member of 65 or 66 if
they gave an either here and the gifts to the
stadium expansion. Now, this is a $100 gift that's
getting you that plaque. A $100 gift. And anyway,
here you send the plaque out. We just started
converting to magazine. We really didn't have an
editor yet. Yeah, we did. We got an editor in 66.
Well, see, as soon as the money started coming in, I
could hire somebody. See, there's no state money.
We're sitting over there having to use that gift
money as everything we get. And boy, that's why it
took me a while to get our personnel classified as
the same as state. For example, I had to get my
people classified somehow. And we didn't have
benefits equal to the state or anything. So it took
me a while to get. So finally, when Juanita Murray
came after Lonnie Locke retired, We got everybody
in the place classified according to the state pay
scale. Personnel gave me all the state
classifications for various editors and
accountants and secretaries. And we were able to
classify every one of our people the same as the
university. And with the experience, we had the
steps, the step one, two, four, or something like
that. I should know this, but is the Former
Students Association is chartered or organized
as what? As a philanthropic or? Philanthropic
Edomocenary Association classified The charter
is under the Secretary of State, State of Texas,
99-year thing. When was that charter? I know when
the former singers began and all that stuff, but
the charter really was probably written? It's in
John Adams' book or something. Back in the 30s,
20s, maybe 21? Yeah, that sounds about right. 21,
100-year charter, 99-year charter, Secretary of
State. And then in 1940, 41, we've got one of the
first March of Dimes, 501C3 philanthropic
organization. See, the March of Dimes charter was
the first one under Roosevelt. When would that be,
1940, 39? Yeah, right in there. So we had a guy named
Ted Moley, and he got the— Former students were one
of the first ones that got that tax-exempt,
philanthropic, all those words they use in their
letter from IRS, which you have to renew every so
many years. You have to apply for a new. Then we got
one, see, we got one for the for the Aggie Club. And
we had one for the Development Foundation. We had
all three of those were chartered by the state and
by the federal government as charitable.
organizations for the 501 tax code. So that's the
beginning, really, of your successful
fundraising is the Century Club plaque. Right.
That plaque did it. See, we took pictures of it. We
had pictures of it in the magazine. We had pictures
of it everywhere. See, my first full-time editor
was Joe Buser. And Joe Buser had just come back from
the service. I think I got him in 67.
Elnquist tried a large, oversized, and we took the
tabloid and tried to make a magazine out of it. It
didn't work too well. We had to get a full-time
editor, and we had to go commercial so we could get
time set, and a printing done, and a commercial
operation to get it out on time. And in the press, we
had a low priority. That's when I was convinced the
way we were treated by different agencies on the
campus, putting off, well, we'll do that
tomorrow, you know, the inefficiencies of it, no
motivational sense of purpose or no sense of
urgency. And I said, well, we've got to
computerize. We'll do it with data processing,
but we're going to control the records. The
university will not control these records. He
said, how could I ever get a mailing list? I'd have
to go on low priority, like these other schools,
like LSU. I got them off of the statement. So that
was their hang-up. Well, almost all these
schools, SMU, all these alumni associations.
Well, they start out because they think it saves
them money, and it ends up throttling them. The
University of Texas. They have their own record
system, but the university pays them for keeping
the addresses of alumni. Our registrar actually
can get money to keep alumni records, but our
people won't. Our formal student payers are just
so viciously independent. They don't want to
depend on the university. Are you chilly? No, I'm
fine. Thank you. I can turn it. And we got a lot, I
didn't realize we had so much to say. And I wonder
where you are. I'll come back if you get tired. So,
the Century Club. Then, when Bob Latimer was
president a couple years later, I can't remember
the year, I've got it, we're in his house and after
the second martini, maybe it was while we were
drinking the second martini, I said, Bob, One
thing we've got to do this year, his company had
been sold and he was kept on salary, good big salary
for a year. And so he was present for it and all he did
then was get invested in the magazine and I had to
fire an editor and hire, I think I had to fire a guy
and I hired, I guess that's when we hired Jerry
Cooper. And I said we've got to get this upper
level, Central Club going better. I said we've got
to identify and give a name to these levels. And I
said, well what can we do? We were talking about the
cum laude level, and I said well I was going to tie it
in with academia, you know. And little old Jane
Lyons says, well why don't you just call it like
precious metals, like gold and silver and brass
and so on. And I said, oh that's great, okay, it'll
be silver for $250 and it'll be $500 for the golden
for the $500, and then what in the world are we going
to call that top one, the $1,000? She said, oh,
that's easy. Call that the diamond. I said, God,
gee, you're just wonderful. So she's the one that
made the... So then we kicked that off in good
shape, and boy, it was really successful. So now
they got the double diamond. Now they got them
endowed, see, and everything. Then we started
being able to get staff. Then I could hire a field
director, and I hired... an associate. That's
when I got Bob Walker as a developer. But see, what
happened there? Let me tell you what happened to
Bob Walker. Instead of him coming and taking over
my job as field and all the other kind of stuff, we
had kicked off the presidency. The board of
directors in 1966,
we'll say, or 7, authorized the President's
Scholars Program. That was gifts. Yeah, I
remember that. We had to get gifts, or the Board of
Regents had to appropriate the money for these
President's Scholars. We were trying to get the
Brady kids, you know. And I don't know how many we
had, not many, probably 10. So the former students
had worked with the Regents, and so we were pledged
to fund so many, too. So the Regents funded some,
and we funded the rest. I think we were funding
about, I think there probably were 20 or 25
altogether. We were funding half each. And then
Wisemaker came up with the idea, shit, let's endow
these. $25,000 endowment. They got together and
worked out the interest rates and so on. And the
Board of Regents, and we said, give us permission
to go and work these endowments, and we'll get
going. Well, I got the artwork done. I got the
letter written to Rudder and all the stuff, a real
fancy package to send to people to get this $25,000
gift. And I took it down to Earl Runner, and he said,
oh, he said, I don't know. He said, I think, he said,
let me think this over. He said, I'm, he said, with
people giving that kind of money, I'm gonna end up
with another board of directors. I'm gonna have,
and I said, well, President, I don't think so at
all. I think you, he said, well, it's something, he
said, how many of these you think you'll raise? I
said, I think we'll raise 1,000 of them, 500 at
least anyway in the next 10 years. He said, 500
students. He said, that's going to be a big job. And
I said, sure. It's going to take a staff of people to
handle the records, because we want to identify
each endowment and scholar for that person. So he
said, well, let me think about this. So I called
Royston. I said, Royston, things not going well. I
need the big guns to come. And he said, well, get me
an appointment. So I called him back and said, we
got an appointment Tuesday. at 1 o'clock in the
afternoon Tuesday. So Royce came in, and we
planned our strategy. So we went back to see him,
and I had a little more work done. I had his letter
finished and some things like this. And Royce laid
a check on the desk. The Earl Rudder Scholar put a
check for $25,000. And Royce said, oh, yeah. He
said, OK. He said, I agree to the program, but I
think that Dorsey ought to run it. And Royce says.
You think that he will do it? And the writer says,
well, sure, I'm going to tell him to do it. So I
bundled up this stuff. I had a sizable package of
papers and cardboard and stuff like that, logos
and things for the P.E.S. See, now, this is outside
of alumni work. This is development. So I take this
whole thing over to Dorsey, and I leave it with him.
I said, Dorsey, read all this material. And the
problem is that Earl Rudder, I mean, President
Rudder, wants you to, to administer this program.
And I said, now, Dorsey, I'm going further. I've
got a staff plan here. Initially, you'll need one
secretary and one assistant man to deal with
contact to these people. And I said, I will help
him. I said, right here is the prospect list. I had
200 people on here. I guarantee you, every one of
them came right through. Within two years, all
those 200 had given them down. Now, where is
Dorsey? That's the question I wanted to ask. He's
in development now. He was the director of
development after he became President Rudder's
assistant. And McQuillan retired. They looked
for a replacement. In fact, guys came down here
from Missouri and from Michigan. And they studied
everybody on campus. They recommended Dorsey
McCrory be director of development. And old
Dorsey was lazy. And I knew he wasn't going to do it.
But I had his staff organization. to support the
program. Initially, he needed one secretary and
one person to go out and solicit these. And the
director of development now is under Rudder's
direct authority. Yes, sir. Which I understand.
Rudder is involved. See, if we're going to have
millions of dollars in endowments for these
present scholarships, endowed scholarships,
then Rudder wanted to control them. Right. That's
what he was obviously removing. Which he's right.
See, he's absolutely right. I couldn't agree
more. That money had no business being over.
That's restricted, endowed money, and ought to be
administered by the state. At least the
foundation, which is controlled by the
association, but still he can control that
through the foundation. Because his employees
run the foundation. So
two weeks later, in a campus mail, I get all this
material I left with Dorsey in it with a note
saying, thanks for your staff suggestions. I
don't have the space to set up an office for this. We
don't have the staff to budget and so on and so on.
Because I even gave him a budget. How much his
travel would cost, how much his publication would
cost, transportation, all the other stuff to go.
So anyway, we get it back. Meanwhile, I'm out in San
Francisco, and I hire, I don't hire, I see Bob
Walker, who was Aggie class of 58, who was director
of development and annual giving and editor of the
He was everything in the Alumni Association at
Pepperdine University in Los Angeles. So I said,
what are you doing out here? Why don't you come back
to Texas? And he said, I'd like to. I said, I'm
looking for a man right now as director of annual
giving. And I said, I'm about to have a new program.
I actually need two men. Two men.
But I only had money for one. So I said, you going to
the conference in Miami this year? And he said,
yeah. I said, why don't you stop in Houston, which
was only about six weeks or two months away, and
stop in Houston for an interview with Melvin
Waltz, who was our president at that time. And I'll
have executive committee there. I'll be there
myself. And let me know your flight schedule. I'll
meet you at the plane. You need to be interviewed
because this is, in our scope, this is my
assistant. You'll be my associate executive
director. And you'll have to carry
on a multiplicity of programs, annual giving and
PES and all that stuff. Well, anyway, see
meanwhile, I'm still doing city campaigns. I was
just mailing cards out to my chairman. I had funds
to hire a full-time secretary in Fort Worth,
Dallas. You were the staff, basically, right now.
I was the whole staff, that's right. But I was doing
that by mail. I had a full-time. So these got
chairmen, voluntary chairmen. They'd get their
wife or some other person that's full-time. We'd
put a phone in their home or wherever it is they
wanted to do it. And they ran the annual giving. But
as I said, our level was coming up. And finally, I
dropped annual giving and just had them solicit
for Century Club. Because we had to quit thinking
about $10 gifts. $25 enough is what we needed. We
couldn't run that association on less than that.
Our average gift had to be somewhere in the
vicinity of at least $26, $27, about our average.
So the Century Club was going great guns. By this
time, we were heavy in the plaque business. So
anyway, Bob Walker was hired then after the
interview in Houston. So when he came, meanwhile,
I had everything finished except the brochure.
And we had a guy who was on the board named Don
Garrett from San Antonio. He was vice president
and soon to be president of Frost National Bank,
Aggie. Passed with 15, 55, 56. And he... helped us
as a businessman. He was receiving a letter from
Rudder and getting this brochure. And his
advertising agency helped us with the brochure
and so on. Cecil Stewart did a logo for us that
worked out real nice, PES logo. So anyway, it
turned out that that was going to be a full-time
job. So Bob Walker, in effect, took the
President's Endowed Scholarship Program over.
We just let the city campaign sort of fizzle out,
went into direct mail. And I got him to take over the
direct mail annual giving. But actually, most of
his time went into the PES. Because $25,000 in
those days was a lot of money. We had to make several
calls. And we were having other people recommend.
Once we'd get Harold done, he'd get his buddies to
give. So we were using centers of influence to help
us raising these endowments. So basically,
though, what Rutter had projected didn't work
out. No, it didn't work out at all. The development
fund shifted back to the former students. Former
students, yeah. Did that create any rub or
problems in the future with the administration?
Or did the administrators feel like you were in
control, in fact, of something there? No, it
didn't cause any control. I've never heard of any
idea. Except when Jack Williams came, two or three
things happened. And we were riding back from
Dallas, and I had made some notes, and Jack
Williams says, what are the things that we're
doing? He made me go with him everywhere. Because
he wanted me to tell you where the former students
were. I said, this is Henry Deloff Clash and so and
so and so and so. He's a great historian. He's a
people person. He wanted everybody there. He's a
people person. I tell you, here's a great story. He
wanted me to go the first time to Austin. And Bob
Cherry. Yeah, Bob Cherry was there. Yeah, Bob
Cherry was there. But Williams didn't know Cherry
too well. He wanted me to go with him. appropriate,
Bob was there. Bob was secretary of the board at the
time. And several of our deans and several of
everybody else. See, I had to go over with Rudder
when the co-education thing was hot to read the
resolution by the Association Board of Council on
encouraging the Regents to reconsider the
admission of women and the Non-Compulsory Court.
So I was a little bit familiar with those
committees over there. So we're at this committee
and this guy's Dr. Williams, before we get on with
the Appropriations Committee hearing here, tell
us what is meant by hullabaloo, connect, connect?
And Dr. Williams said, and didn't bat an eye or
write smack, and he said, in Chickasha, India,
that means beat the hell out of the University of
Texas. He was good. He was quick. They fell on the
floor. He was quick. They fell on the floor. The
meeting was really in chaos. Everybody was
laughing. Anyway, the man from Midland said,
thank you very much, sir. We'll continue with the
hearing. I've always wondered what that meant. He
went to Texas Tech. So
when Williams came, I said, well, number one, he
said, do you have a Friends in the library? I said,
no. But I said, we sure need one. The library was
just neglected. Everybody neglects it. So
Williams said, well, let me work on that. I said, I
think we need to do that. Of course, that got me
involved in it. So I've been involved in it ever
since and became president of the Friends a couple
of years after that. I said, the big thing is we have
a disaster in the development area, just
absolutely nothing. I said, we have a foundation
with approximately $250,000 in it given by
probably three people, Wofford Cain and Herman
Heap and Doc Doherty and a few people like that. I
said, we need a director of development and later a
vice president and so on. I said, we sure do need to
go. She said, well, why hadn't this been done? I
said, well, we were spread too thin. And I said,
Earl Rudder wasn't willing to push it at the time.
He needed more emphasis on faculty and staff. And
his problems, that was not one of his problems. It
was on low priority. That's all I'm saying. So he
said, well. We'll talk about that. Said, get
someone lined up for me to interview. And he said,
what about budget? I said, well, the university's
going to have to come up with a budget, because this
man will have to be a university employee.
Wouldn't you like it? And he says, well, I said, I
don't think that this money ought to be in the
former student association. I think this ought to
be in the Development Foundation, at least. So
anyway, we recruited at meetings, and we had
people come in here. It cost us a lot of money just
paying these people to come in for interviews. A
lot of them paid their own expenses. But we tried
for about three months and we couldn't get
anywhere. So finally he said to me, why don't you
take it? I said well I haven't finished, I've got to
finish this job. I've got to get a better magazine
and I've got to, you know. So William asked you to
take it up? Yeah. I said, you know, I'd be a younger
man. I said, Bob Walker's familiar with
everything. He's well-trained. He's been doing
it out in California for Pepperdine. I said, he's,
of course, the truth is he wasn't very good at
annual giving either. I said, I didn't tell him
that. I just said, he's attuned. He's a
people-on-people man, and he really works with
old people well. He's a good man for trust and
requests and so on. I said, he can hire a lawyer. I
said, but I said, he'll be, and I said, he's working
on his doctorate right now. I said, I've given him
time to, because I think that whoever fills his job
ought to have the credentials for a vice
president. Shouldn't be a bachelor's or
master's. You know, he just, if you're going to be
involved in education, just have those
credentials. Whereas I don't, for what I'm doing,
a bachelor's is fine. I don't need anything like
that. But if you're rubbing elbows with the vice
presidents and deans and people like that, you
need to have it. It looks good on paper, too. So he
said, well, let me think about that. So he said,
okay, on Walker, let's talk about how we do this and
so on. So
when was that now, roughly, that Bob Walker was
hired? Let's see. I can dig it out, but no. Let's
see.
I wonder if Jerry, do you ever keep up with this?
Yeah.
I'm glad you turned that out, too, because I can go
back. See, 67 was the President's Scholars
Program sponsored by Texas A&M University System
Board of Directors and the Association of Former
Students, 67. OK, now let's go over here and see
when Rudder.